### Goals
-  The trainee will understand how OpenShift works

## Pre course questions
What is a container and what's its advantages?
Why would you use containers instead of using traditional methods?


### Tasks
- Perform the first OpenShift course at the Red Hat courses portal
[OpenShift course](https://rol.redhat.com/rol/app/courses/do180-4.12.2)

## Links

- [Understanding subsystems](https://learn.openshift.com/subsystems/)
- [Openshift Concepts](https://medium.com/@ashmitha/basic-introduction-to-openshift-concepts-2563cdd1ac9f)
- [Use Cases](https://medium.com/nerd-for-tech/redhat-open-shift-its-use-cases-7b415b005f51)

## Questions

What is Kubernetes? How does it differ from Openshift?


Read about each of the following Openshift objects and answer the questions:
- Docker, Images, Dockerfile
  - What is a container image?
  - What are image tag and ID/SHA?
  - What are image layers?
  - What is docker and podman? what are the differences?
  - How does a Dockerfile structure look like?
  - What is the difference between ENTRYPOINT and CMD?
  - What is a image registry (give some examples)?

- Pods, Deployment, DeploymentConfig, Statefulsets, ReplicationControllers
  - What is a pod?
  - What is the difference between containers and pods?
  - Why would one group a couple of containers into a single pod?
  - What is the diffrence between a Deployment and a DeploymentConfig?
  - When should one use a Statefulset over a DeploymentConfig?
  - What is deprecated/not supported, deployment or DeploymentConfig?

- ConfigMaps, Secrets, PVCs
  - Why should ConfigMaps be used?
  - What is the difference between a ConfigMap and a Secret?
  - What are the methods one could use to access ConfigMap or Secret data from a pod?
  - What are the different access modes to a PVC?

- Services, Routes, NetworkPolicies
  - What are NetworkPolicies?
  - What is the diffrence between each of the Service types?
  - What is a Headless Service?
  - Describe each of the Route termination types.

- ServicesAccounts, Roles, RoleBindings
  - How can you create a permanent access token with a custom set of permissions on a project?
  - What are capabilities?
  - When running a deployment which user actually runs the pod.
  - How can we add permissions to a service account?
  - What is a k8s context?
  - What is the `~/.kube/config` file and what is the meaning of its contents? How is it different for ServiceAccounts?

- ImageStreams, BuildConfigs, ResourceQuotas
  - Why should you use ImageStream?
  - Why should you use BuildConfigs?
  - What is the purpose of a ResourceQuota?

