# Postgresql

#### Getting Started

-The trainee will be familiar with PostgreSQL's basic terms:

     -Database
     -Table Space
     -Schema
     -Table
-The trainee will be familiar with basic PostgreSQL commands:
     -SELECT 
     -UPDATE 
     -DELETE 
     ETC....
     
#### Basic Questions

1. What is the deafult port of Postgres
2. Read about the following objects in Postgresql:
   -View
   -Materialized View
   -Functions
   -Triggers
3. The trainee will understand how replication works in PostgreSQL:
        The trainee will understand the following terms:
             -WAL
             -replication_slot
             -wal_levels
4.Read about PostgreSQL replication and answer the following:
     -What are WAL files? What part of the ACID wal files are related to?
     -What are checkpoints?
     -what are replication slots?
          -What are replication slots used for?
          -How can you list all replications slots?
          -How can you create/delete a replication slot?
     -What's 'streaming replication'?

5. Understand PostgreSQL memory usage and explain the following configuration:
     -work_mem
     -max_connections
     -shared_buffers
     -maintenance_work_mem
     -effective_cache_size
   
6.Vacuum
     -What is the Vacuum process?
     -When is a row deleted from the database? When is a tuple deleted from           the disk?
     -What are the responsibilities of the Vacuum process?

7.The trainee will understand what is repmgr and what it is used for-
     -What is primary server?
     -What is standby server?
     -How does replication work?
             
        
