## Goals

- The trainee will get familiar with mongoDB basic terms

## Tasks

* What is the default port of mongo?
* How is mongo different from relational databases? What is the main use case of Mongo?
* What is a `collection`?
* Read about [MongoDB replication](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/replication/) and answer the following: 
  * Explain the idea of replication and how it works on mongodb.
  * Elaborate on how the hierarchy works.
  * What is the `oplog` and how is it used for replication between the hosts.     
  * What is a `replica lag`? how can we check the it? 
      * Elaborate the causes of replica lag.
  * Read about replica set [elections](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/replica-set-elections/) and explain: 
    * What is a failover?
    * instance `votes` and `priority`.
      * How does the `priority` affect the election process?
  * How does the cluster recognize that the master is not available - how is it called?
  * Read about the different backup and restore methods of MongoDB
* Read about MongoDB authentication and explain:
  * User/Password authentication
  * Read about client certificates, how is it different from server certificates?
  * How does MongoDB authenticate the client's certificate? Which user does the client get access to?
  * How many different users can authenticate using the same certificate? 

 * Read about `studio 3T` 
   * What is it used for? 
* Read about [`Ops Manager`](https://docs.opsmanager.mongodb.com/current/)
   * What is ops manager and what is it used for?


 
